you guys you guys you guys you guys guys
Jared press the button and that fired
into life I'm very very excited now so
we might have an actual foot rest that
works okay so yes welcome everyone to
the next episode of my Dodge Caravan
rebuild proudly supported by Advance
Auto Parts now if you guys don't know
this thing is my 1999 Dodge Caravan and
it was on a little show called pimp my
ride so in the first episode we took off
the wheels we took off the body panels
because this morning I took everything
to the body shop and honestly that took
a little bit longer than I wanted I
wanted to get a little bit of an early
start on this but today is gonna be when
we do all the building now when I say we
I mean me and my friend Jared over here
so I asked Jared not to do anything
basically the entire day because I
wanted to get dirty just as much as as
you are you never said that listen I
thought it was like a unwritten thing
you know we can take a look dude oh come
on man dude I can't believe you did this
I mean people are gonna get really mad
that none of this stuff was on camera
who said I didn't get it on camera
[Music]
all right now that we are caught up
actually you guys are caught up I have
no idea what Jared did Jared can you
explain to us in about 30 seconds what
all you did here oh we pulled the intake
manifold which was the big part here
valve covers thermostat housing water
pump all the accessory drives the power
steering pump bracket fuel injectors are
out we still have to do the coolant
temperature switch out and the front
motor mount but other than that it's put
all new parts back on - is it realistic
to say that this is gonna be a running
engine by the end of the night oh
absolutely I've been impressed the ease
of working on this thing it's not what I
expected as much rust kind of hid around
on the bolts it's it's straightforward
you know it's actually not too bad I
mean you have these brackets that are a
little bit rusty but they're actually
not not rusted through or anything but I
see that a lot of the stuff you've taken
off is a little worse with aware and I
figure we can probably sandblast those
and make them a little more pretty that
is the old power steering pump yeah this
one is a little leaky you can see that
the seal is not exactly doing its job
now normally you don't have to pull the
bracket to change that power steering
pump but since we had everything apart
we're trying to clean it up why not go
ahead and take it out we also have an
alternator here and that alternator is
not exactly alternating how easily does
it turn yeah that was the one we showed
a couple times
it's an alternator that doesn't what's
really interesting is the case is
actually cracked and exploded out how
does that happen
one the bearings seized in something
expanded the other thing that's possible
is if water drained into it and actually
got stuck in because the car sat it
froze and cracked it I was thinking like
Pikachu Thunder shock so we have that
and we have all of these parts here that
we got from advance we have our
batteries we have our brake calipers we
have our brake rotors and pads and we
have everything that we need here to
basically rebuild this car and make it a
very good runner and very good daily
driver for somebody so right now Jerry's
gonna be putting everything back in the
engine bay and I will tackle the fun bit
because I don't really want to get that
dirty even though this is probably
dirtier I'm gonna be doing the interior
[Music]
[Applause]
dude hey done good good it doesn't look
like I've done much but we have new
spark plugs the water pumps and the
power steering pumps in all the front
brackets except for the two that you're
painting our back mat that looks a lot
even if we didn't paint if that looks
better I have brought you a gift chair
and I can head way we're gonna do the
motor mount and then we can put in our
new cooling fans question is this
generally a problem I mean there's a
there's a little bit of sludge in this
drivetrain here you don't want sludge
but I'm not surprised to see that amount
of sludge in a domestic van that
probably hasn't had the best service
history when you really get concerned is
when you start to see it built up to the
shape of the valve cover I used to work
at Toyota and I've pulled a valve cover
off and it looks like the valve cover
was still there you can actually put
some automatic transmission fluid right
before it old change interval about 500
miles before and it has enough
detergents it'll clean it up and do that
over the next couple old changes and
it'll probably look pretty close to new
again
are we ready to watch tovarisch episode
we're not ready to watch anything right
now okay we're not no work also there's
no battery in there so uh we're gonna
watch TV well didn't she find the
something extra well okay now it's
starting to look like something I think
she cleans up pretty well but I have
uncovered some treasures back here first
off there's a second battery which is
completely completely dead not sure how
long it's been there I don't know if I
knew the old owners knew that I was in
there but that's something we have to
replace now this right here is part of
the foot rest mechanism and that
actually goes in and out that does work
but the problem is the foot rest it also
is a monitor and monitor unfortunately
does not work so what I'm gonna do is
I'm just gonna put everything back the
way it was with a nonworking monitor I
don't think it's going to be a huge deal
and just have a footrest that actually
works but other than that if you take a
look over here there's a little space
where you can see the outside world and
that I guess is where you store all the
remotes that is all broken apart I have
to put that together with some wood glue
and then we have to figure out why those
monitors work or why they don't work and
why they're a little bit wobbly also I
have to secure
this stuff so right now it's gonna be a
giant montage of me just tightening
everything up testing and then making
sure it works and then we're gonna have
a fully pimped interior look at what
Jared did in this engine bay
it looks amazing you can't even tell
that anything was done because it just
looks like a regular engine bay but the
alternators new the belts knew all the
tensioners the pulleys we have the
cleaned up valve covers the valve cover
gaskets we have the thermostat gasket
the thermostat we have the coolant we
have what else did we have oil we have
the coolant temperature sender cuz the
old one was corroded spark plug wires
spark plugs water pump basically every
soft part to do maintenance is new and
this is a Ferrari this would cost
$20,000 I think the time is right to
start this thing okay all right moment
of truth we have gas now and we have
Edward at our side we we have whoo
Edward all right
[Applause]
all right
anything leaking nope
that is a very very quiet sounding
engine
the people should just leave it alone
and get it up to operating some yeah
we'll let her burp out so we can balance
the coolant get heat inside okay welcome
everyone to day two of our 24-hour build
this is the next day I have different
clothes on and we sort of left off on
the car running and we wanted to get it
up to operating temperature but we
figured that we should probably do other
things before we get it on its first
test drive and that is fill up the AC
now the AC is very important for a lot
of vehicles but especially for a van
because usually you want to be you know
comfortable unfortunately our air
conditioning system has a leak in it now
what I did and what you're supposed to
do before ever charging up an AC I have
my manifold gauges on here and I pulled
a vacuum with my little vacuum pump and
then I let it sit for about 30 minutes
so initially it was about 25 in the red
right here and then over 30 minutes it
went down to under 20 which means that
we have a leak it's small leak but a
leak nonetheless and if we start putting
in refrigerant that means that when it
pressurizes that pressure is gonna leak
out somewhere and we're not gonna have
AC anymore well I mean right now it's
kind of cold it's kind of cool actually
in Florida it's cool yeah we're going
it's even colder yeah so this car is
gonna be going to a place where this AC
is not necessary not right now but we
got the engine running the engine runs
fine we have the coolant system blood it
is nice and that's nice and warm to the
touch we just had the brake system
overhauled by my boy Jared right here
brand-new shoes in the back we have
rotors pads and calipers in the front
and we bled all four wheels fun fact the
99 Dodge Caravan actually had 16-inch
carbon ceramic brakes as an option and
that is not true we also put on the new
tires I think there are a general G max
ASO fives apparently there okay
those heavy just a little bit yeah well
let me let me help you let me help you
okay thanks okay all right I got it
yeah my chopping a lot dude
[Music]
check out these leaf springs should at
least bring be completely horizontal
like this one is it very sometimes
they're flat sometimes you want a little
arc in them I think these are just a
little tired I don't believe by design
also there's a lot of audio equipment in
the back so that's kind of weighing it
down just a bit it's a little soft in
the rear for comfort I was busy back
here doing electronics things and I
figured out why a lot of this stuff
didn't work and that's because it just
wasn't plugged in I must say the quality
of work that went into this car is
actually pretty good now fit and finish
was obviously not the best however if
you look at the wiring work they did go
to great lengths to make sure that
everything was fused everything has
relays this relays back there I had to
make sure that everything was done
correctly and we also got this thing
this is a triple flip down monitor we
actually made this work again because
the way they did it in the show was they
had a antenna motor and they retrofitted
it to basically control this there's
three flip down monitors right here and
it's on these drawer slides and the
drawer slides go up and down however the
motor was really really past it so we
ended up going just back to advanced and
we can see that the the motor was one
that they already carried it was a metro
motor and then all we did was we
modified it in the same way and now it
actually works well hopefully oh yeah
the other way all the way there we go
look at that and oh that's not a good
sound oh look at that that's amazing now
they're supposed to turn on turn this
one on and then we can turn this one on
I believe I have to set up the RC F for
that top one well the second one should
work no I think this Blair might be at
fault that needs addressing but check
this out whoa so I wanted to get to the
bottom of why the video signal wasn't
getting to one of our monitors and I
narrowed it down to this splitter this
is a powered splitter which means that
power comes in and it
amplifies a signal going from one RCA
this is a video output into four that's
how you get all the monitors playing the
same thing at the same time now this is
a pretty simple circuit but I know when
a solder joint is bad if you can see me
wiggling these two prongs right here it
looks like the solder just came off this
is a capacitor for that input so
theoretically all I have to do is solder
this back make sure that the connection
is good and we should be good to go
[Music]
all right moment of truth I have the
splitter here everything is connected
I have soldered a bunch of joints that I
thought were questionable and I made my
fixes and hopefully if fingers crossed
well let me actually cross my fingers
hopefully fingers crossed this should
work and this does it's little
song-and-dance and at some point maybe
there we go so we have one two three
working moment of truth to see if the
back is working as well oh yeah we have
a fully working seven actually not even
seven we have seven eight and soon to be
nine not sure if that's gonna work but
nine monitors set up in this van I am so
surprised that things worked out yeah
that they all came back to life you
would think what was it 2004
Kiara's technology wouldn't quite have
the staying factor no no everything
works I mean you do see some like dead
pixels every once in a while but it's
it's really not that bad
this is this is 100% hater vision right
here so when we get this all buttoned up
and we hit this button for neon now we
have everything back here sort of lit up
but then it powers up this guy oh yeah
this is awesome okay now I have to just
clean up everything after replace that
battery put the footrest in and then the
interior should be 100% sorted
[Music]
you gon keep going on till I tell you so
no one what happened today you guys you
guys you guys you guys guys Jared press
the button and that fired into life I'm
very very excited now so we might have
an actual footrest that works okay so
yes yeah whoo this man is a 100%
functional 100% like we have officially
been pimped this is ridiculous we gotta
clean this up and and take this for a
drive it's all it's already dark so all
right our 24-hour bill took a little bit
more than 24 hours you were just
supposed to put the turn down there well
um the V doesn't sound very good so I'm
gonna make it sound better it is a van
yeah I know but now it's gonna be a van
that sounds good
are you proud of yourself Freddie well
I'm proud that I'm balancing this thing
yep look at that
that is so much better we have so much
more room for activities can't we just
take this off very om approved method of
doing this and just twist and pull
engage our safety squints people where
you have no you have glasses on I know
but I still engage safety once you know
double protection double protection Hey
all right there you go
there we go that was easy hey Freddie
what here's your turn down stop stop
you want your turn down top it no where
does it go what's it for
Jared I swear what do not mmm
Jerris turn stop so we got this turn
down from for what we pick this up from
advance with these little clamps and all
you have to do is just stick it right on
here and it makes your van sound awesome
so just make sure you have enough
purchase on the exhaust let me think
we are in business so this is a very
very nice little modification
[Music]
whoo look at that the body shop did an
amazing job matching the colors now
obviously the colors are really hard to
match I didn't know what the paint code
was and it's a metallic color but they
did a really good job with the front
bumper the side skirts they were all
jacked up and now they look brand-new
and Jared did a great job with polishing
these lights with that kit we got it
advanced but right now is gonna be the
maiden voyage of this van and I can't
stop looking at it it is just so it it
looks like like a like a piece of candy
it's it's really vibrant it pops and
everything on the interior works but we
have the door open because we are about
to do something
well since it's sort of the season for
it we decided that we should do
something nice so we went and bought a
bunch of toys and we are just going to
drop them off and also take this thing
for a little spin and see how she drives
okay okay this is this is heavy no you
can't have this this is for this is for
kids yes yes you are kid you're
definitely all right kid all right let's
see let's see how she drives throwing up
a window okay all right first foray into
the real world with my new completely
restored van you like a fuzzy dice every
van needs fuzzy dice okay so speedometer
works temperatures pressures all that
stuff while pressures I don't know but
temperature is okay we have an ABS light
on blood not sure that's about we just
went into second gear third gear
this feels like a been doing 40 miles an
hour we have gas the gas gauge was a
little bit wonky but I think it sort of
found it's found its place it found its
happy yeah needs a bit of a little bit
of an alignment but it's not it's not
too bad like Rick right now it's dead
we're got a little bit to the right but
nothing nothing too horrible brakes work
brakes are definitely working I would
hope so it's all new what would that say
about me there's nothing nothing
rattling back here I would think that
with all this costs to stop with
everything back yeah it would be would
be a mess but it's actually nice hey
Freddie what just happened magic
happened magic just happened so the ABS
light just went off apparently all this
car needs to fix itself is successful
drive cycles with working brakes yeah
but with everything working it just
wants to confirm it twice and then it
starts working again oh my gosh okay so
there is zero wrong with this van right
now the only tiny gremlin stop nope
is the ghost to help no it randomly
thinks it's empty no zero zero right now
zero wrong right now there's no you know
you should see this you know I should
see this who the people that helped us
out in advance oh absolutely I think
they'll enjoy it
you want to go let's go all right let's
go show off our our trophy take a look
okay there we go yeah yeah we have our
foot rest monitor just in case you want
to you know put your feet up give me the
remote we have a little little dance
floor action here well listen um you
know if this is not the deluxe model but
if you actually look on and on the
ceiling you can see that it has a laser
laser show up there
there we go that's pretty cool there
this is running actually it's running
very very well because of you guys so
yeah I I just wanted to thank you and
let you see all this all the stuff and
we're about to be driving this thing
quite quite a long time
oh we're driving it too well middle of
the country about like a thousand miles
something like that so we've got new
brakes new rotors pads calipers all that
and underneath it's just a it's a pretty
honest engine it's not anything like
super you know polished or anything but
it works everything on this side is new
alternator tensioners yeah you guys had
absolutely everything in Sacco's mmm-hmm
yeah yeah this was this was great and it
was fun so we did this in about two days
and we did the headlight restoration
yeah so they look brand new great your
mark of approval yes sir awesome awesome
[Music]
how you doing dude great
Oh your day is about to get a lot better
okay
so fast and Fries murcilago uh better
you see it in the reflection don't you I
do see it in the reflection oh my turn
around
[Music]
you